README.md, before:

# occupant-query

A simple elm app for displaying auto-generated queries on web kiosks.

## Features

- Elm's strong type system and compile-time checks, allow for quick, smooth,
and error-free deployment on even minimally powered devices.

- This app continues to function normally if/when the hosting device loses internet connectivity;
all data is temporarily moved to local storage until connectivity with the server is re-established.

- A simple [flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/) server is included in the [`server/`](./server/) directory,
which dynamically provides parameters to the elm app & logs responses.

## Usage

To compile & launch:

````
$ elm-make src/Main.elm --output=server/static/main.js
$ cd server/
$ export FLASK_APP=server.py
$ flask run
````
You should see something like this:

````
 * Serving Flask app "server"
 * Running on http://127.0.0.1:5000/ (Press CTRL+C to quit)
````

An example query is available at `http://127.0.0.1:5000/queries/test_query`
(if your flask app is running somewhere other than `127.0.0.1:5000`, then modify the url as appropriate).
The server auto-generates queries from JSON files in the [`server/tmp/queries/`](./server/tmp/queries/) directory.
Check out [`server/tmp/queries/test_query.json`](./server/tmp/queries/test_query.json)
to see the config file which generates the above example.

Query files are loaded based on filename (eg; `http://myserver/queries/favorite_colors`
will serve a query based on the config file `favorite_colors.json`).
All parameters are inserted directly into the web-page at time of service,
allowing the elm app to function autonomously once the page has been loaded.

The elm app dynamically generates a number of html classes
which can be used as handles within [`server/static/style.css`](./server/static/style.css).
This makes it easy to modify the appearance of queries without any re-compilation.

## Ongoing/Future Development

### Elm-Side Development:

- Modularization to allow for greater ease of modification, re-use, etc...

- Dynamic handling of the special case of single-question pages.

- Various modifications to support embedding within larger web pages/apps
(eg; more explicit html classing to prevent css collisions).

- Ability to change any configuration/questions based upon instructions from server.


### Server-Side Development:

- Default configuration options for queries
(eg; if no upload interval is given, serve app with some default value inserted)

- Database integration s.t. query config values, as well as response logs,
can be read from/written to a database (probably PSQL to start with).

- Friendlier error pages in the event of improper urls.

- Ability to server new configuration values to an active app instance.

## Contribution

Pull-requests welcome!

Commit message:

special handling of single-question case added

README.md, after:

# occupant-query

A simple elm app for displaying auto-generated queries on web kiosks.

## Features

- Elm's strong type system and compile-time checks, allow for quick, smooth,
and error-free deployment on even minimally powered devices.

- This app continues to function normally if/when the hosting device loses internet connectivity;
all data is temporarily moved to local storage until connectivity with the server is re-established.

- A simple [flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/) server is included in the [`server/`](./server/) directory,
which dynamically provides parameters to the elm app & logs responses.

## Usage

To compile & launch:

````
$ elm-make src/Main.elm --output=server/static/main.js
$ cd server/
$ export FLASK_APP=server.py
$ flask run
````
You should see something like this:

````
 * Serving Flask app "server"
 * Running on http://127.0.0.1:5000/ (Press CTRL+C to quit)
````

Existing queries can be found at `http://127.0.0.1:5000/queries/query_name`
(if your flask app is running somewhere other than `127.0.0.1:5000`, then modify the url as appropriate).
By default, there will be three example queries: `multi_query_test`, `single_query_test`, and `empty_query_test`.
The server auto-generates queries from JSON files in the [`server/tmp/queries/`](./server/tmp/queries/) directory.
Check out [`server/tmp/queries/test_query.json`](./server/tmp/queries/test_query.json)
to see the config file which generates the above example.

Query files are loaded based on filename (eg; `http://myserver/queries/favorite_colors`
will serve a query based on the config file `favorite_colors.json`).
All parameters are inserted directly into the web-page at time of service,
allowing the elm app to function autonomously once the page has been loaded.

The elm app dynamically generates a number of html classes
which can be used as handles within [`server/static/style.css`](./server/static/style.css).
This makes it easy to modify the appearance of queries without any re-compilation.

## Ongoing/Future Development

### Elm-Side Development:

- Modularization to allow for greater ease of modification, re-use, etc...

- Dynamic handling of the special case of single-question pages.

- Various modifications to support embedding within larger web pages/apps
(eg; more explicit html classing to prevent css collisions).

- Ability to change any configuration/questions based upon instructions from server.


### Server-Side Development:

- Default configuration options for queries
(eg; if no upload interval is given, serve app with some default value inserted)

- Database integration s.t. query config values, as well as response logs,
can be read from/written to a database (probably PSQL to start with).

- Friendlier error pages in the event of improper urls.

- Ability to server new configuration values to an active app instance.

## Contribution

Pull-requests welcome!
